# Lore Overview
[Home](../11%20General/11.01%20Server%20Introduction.md)

## The Setting: A Millennia Underground
After the planet is scorched, a vast majority of its population is left to survive in the underground caverns. They built cities, tunnels, and towns that were created over many generations that connected the Infernal Lands together. 

Thousands of years later, most of the inhabitants of  the Infernal Lands have forgotten about the surface and life before the scorch. Instead, they continue to build and expand their subterranean environment, creating the vast City States such as [Ahms](14.01%20City%20State%20of%20Ahms/Ahms%20Overview.md), [Ember](14.02%20City%20State%20of%20Ember/Ember%20Overview.md), [Beacon](14.03%20City%20State%20of%20Beacon/Beacon%20Overview.md), etc. 

However, with the lack of light provided, plants are suffering, and there is a lack of nutrition being provided to the people. Farmers are the wealthiest people in the Infernal Lands, many of them located in the City States of [Ahms](14.01%20City%20State%20of%20Ahms/Ahms%20Overview.md), and are seen as the most corrupt, although they try to hide it under a facade of beauty. They decide on the amount of food that can be sent to which cities. These farmers and the other wealthy scattered across the Infernal lands, have formed a hierarchy of their own, forcing many to submit to their ideals.

As more adventurers try to find solutions to the growing problems of the Infernal Lands, maybe one of them will breach the surface and find a new world waiting for them.

## Additional Lore Suppliments
The three great cities of the Infernal Lands have been around since the beginning of the Scorch. With a fragile new world to care for, the cities have a delicate balance between them. All claim to lead the Infernal Lands in one aspect or another (Ahms leading in agriculture, Beacon leading in technology, and Ember leading in Minerals). Still, no one city has authority over the other. However, each city has agreed that expanding the Infernal Lands is prohibited unless the leaders of all three cities deem it necessary; this ruling also includes the Bad Lands. With no city wanting to risk war with the other, the cities live together in harmony, or... that is how it seems. There may be more to the Infernal Lands than meets the eye. Take head adventurers, for the Infernal Lands, may not be what they seem.

## Organizations
[Organizations](12.02%20Organizations/Organizations%20Overview.md) of import within [The Infernal Lands](../14%20Geography/Geography%20Overview.md).
