# Broken Rule Policy
The server operates on a 3-strike system. 

Harassment, DOXXing, and other actions deemed harmful to other players are exempt from this system and will result in an agreed-upon punishment by the admin team.

**Strike One.** You are put on probation. Your actions will be closely examined by the moderator team for two weeks after the first incident when the strike was given.

During this time, *if any other incident occurs*, you will be:
- muted for one day
- a moderator will privately talk to you about what you have done
- if another issue occurs during this time after the mute, you will be banned with an appeal date one week after the initial ban date

**Second Strike.** If, after the first probation period, another incident occurs, you will be issued a second strike. You will again be put under observation by the admins. 

If another issue is brought up within this time, you will be banned from the server, pending an appeal after a week has passed from the initial ban date.

**Third Strike.** If, after this second probation period, another incident is brought up, it will result in a third strike and a ban, with an appeal date one week after the initial date of the ban.

ALL ISSUES STATED WILL BE DOCUMENTED FOR ADMINS TO REFERENCE BACK TO.

After three months of goodwill and no additional incident reports, a strike may be removed from an offender’s record. All strike policies are subject to change depending on the issue's severity and the admin team's discretion.