# Character Creation
[Home](../11%20General/11.01%20Server%20Introduction.md)

## Setting
Before getting too carried away with creating your background, please consider the world's lore in [Common Knowledge](https://discord.com/channels/1003087059247964161/1003087060544000037) (can also be found in [Geography](../14%20Geography/Geography%20Overview.md) and [Lore](../12%20Lore/12.01%20Lore%20Overview.md)). This world takes place almost entirely underground; people have lived underground for a milennia. The Undersky is a myth of ancient legends.

## Approved Content
We will use officially released D&D 5e content only (No One D&D). No homebrew or third-party content is approved within the server (Tasha's class features and custom origins are allowed.) If any changes are made to accepted content, players may receive a Reclass Token to remake their character if they wish to do so.Sheets may be made on any Avrae-compatible system a person wishes but this sheet must accurately represent your character and all of their abilities.You can use: 

- [dndbeyond](https://www.dndbeyond.com/) 
- [Dicecloud, Version 1](https://v1.dicecloud.com/) 
- [Dicecloud, Version 2](https://dicecloud.com/) 
- [Google Sheets](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1_BCAfxQDhbOl_lpIIGTg87dCRnErAr3uRM5xkeqDQMs/edit?usp=sharing)

As these are all compatible with avrae, the discord automation bot.

If you have any questions, feel free to private message a DM or Admin or message in the [#questions](https://discord.com/channels/1003087059247964161/1003087060103594023) channel on the server.

## Disallowed Features/Items
### Feats
- Mystic Conflux
- Spelldriver (both from CR Books.)

### Backgrounds 
- All backgrounds from Spelljammer

## New Character Creation
A character will start at level 2 upon creation.

### Stats & Health
Stats will be the standard array with D&D. Those being 8, 10, 12, 13, 14, and 15. These will be allotted to your character's principal ability scores, and modifiers will be added after these are placed. Character health is the average amount per level.

*Hint: In DnDbeyond use set health not rolled.*

### Starting Gear and Wealth
- All characters start with 250 gold which players can use to buy their equipment. 
- They also begin with one potion of healing (2d4+2 healing). 
- In this server we do not use coin weight.
- Our encumbrance rules are logic based meaning players can only carry a logical ammount of equipment and items. Players do not have to track actual weights of items, but just keep it in mind.

### Starting Feat
All characters can choose to replace their **background feature** with one of the Heroic Starting Feats. The allowed feats are listed below: 
 - Actor
 - Alert
 - Athlete
 - Durable
 - Keen Mind
 - Linguist
 - Lucky
 - Mobile
 - Observant
 - Resilient
 - Skilled
 - Tough 

### Completed Character
Once you finish making your character send a direct message to one of the Admins or Dungeon Masters (Red and Pinkish color names) in the Apostle server, and they will help set up everything else for you. They will invite you to our character server where you will be able to talk DMs and Admins about backstory and other character focused events or activities. 

If you have questions, ask them as well, and they will gladly help you. 

Please have equipment costs written out so the Admins can give you the correct amount of currency within the server. We use the RPG bot to track coin in this server!

Thank you!

### Character Reclass
In addition, the DM team will give out **reclass tokens** where a player may completely remake their character at the same level and experience count. Gold count and Materials are taken upon use of this token. (Subject to change.)

A player acquires one of these tokens when they **first** make a character, then at **level 10**, and finally at **level 20**. If a player wishes to change characters without a token they may do so at the loss of a level of experience and all gold or materials the previous character owned. If a player wishes to use one of these tokens, note it in the **character channel** of the previous character and contact a DM or Admin.

### Character Leveled NPC
A player may only have one character (PC) and one “leveled” NPC that must be 2 levels below a player's current NPC. 

- This Leveled NPC can only role play for the time being.

Rules upon this leveled NPC will be added as they come to fruition. 

# Character Advancement
We will not use standard D&D 5e XP charts. Instead, we will be using the below table to level up.

This table outlines the necessary Experience Points needed to level up to that level as well as any other things needed to advance. All XP will be tracked in the [#xp-logs](https://discord.com/channels/1003087059247964161/1003087060313325669) channel on the Apostle Server.

You can gain experience from the following activities:
- Completing Quests
- [Downtime](../13%20Downtime/13.04%20Downtime%20Experience.md)

## Apostle Experience Table
Level | Experience (Total Experience)
:--: | :--: 
3 | 40
4 | 96
5 | 184
6 | 278
7 | 462
8 | 694
9 | 1006
10 | 1406
11 | 1878
12 | 2454
13 | 3126
14 | 3926
15 | 4846
16 | 5886
17 | 7086
18 | 8526
19 | 10126
20 | 11886

# Character Death
If the character dies, a new one may be created at the same level, but the experience count will lowered to the lowest amount that the current level requires. Ping a DM or Admin when doing so.

Resources and materials gained by the late character (the one who died) will be deleted upon the character's death.


