# Probation Rules
[Home](../11%20General/11.01%20Server%20Introduction.md)

Probationary rules are subject to change based on the severity of the rules broken.

## Players
### Quest Abandonment
Probation for a Player that cancels on a quest three times without a 4-hour warning:
- Prohibited from joining a quest for 28 days from the last infraction
- You may be blacklisted from certain DMs' quests
### Downtime Abandonment 
-If a player does not respond to the pings and their requests become two weeks old, the request will be deleted, and they will lose that downtime
-If a player frequently requests downtime but does not respond to any ping and it is a reoccurring behavior, they will be put on downtime probation, where they cannot post a request for two weeks

## Dungeon Masters
### Quest Cancellation
Probation for a DM that cancels three quests without rescheduling:
- The individual can only post a quest once they are off probation. Probation for this infraction lasts 28 days.
- A DM on probation cannot vote or discuss any new DM rules created during that time.
- If another quest posted is canceled without rescheduling after the probationary period, the DM will be removed from the staff team.
- The individual may reapply to be a DM 90 days after being removed from the DM team.

### Discontinued Adventures
Probation for a DM that does not continue their adventures:
- You can only post a quest once the individual is off probation. Probation lasts 28 days.
- A DM on probation cannot vote or discuss any new DM rules created during that time.
- If a DM creates another adventure without running the remaining parts of the ongoing adventure in a timely fashion, they can be removed from the DM team.

## Moderators
### Misconduct
Probation for a Moderator that receives a strike:
- The moderator will not be able to vote or discuss other infractions for 14 days. On the 14th day, the server will vote if they feel the moderator is still trustworthy. They will be allowed to vote and discuss after receiving a passing vote. However, they will be removed from the team if the vote fails.
