# General Rules
[Home](../11%20General/11.01%20Server%20Introduction.md)

- Follow all [Discord Community Guidelines](https://discord.com/guidelines)
- Follow the rules of Apostle and Discord. If a rule is broken and there are no staff members online at the time of the infraction, please bring it to their attention so it may be dealt with promptly
- **This is an 18+ server.** If it is discovered that an individual is younger than 18, please bring it to the attention of a staff member.
- Although **the server is 18+**, that does not mean adult content is allowed. Please keep discussions, roleplay, and other forms of interaction free of NSFW content. In other words:
    - No porn 
    - No excessively lewd build-ups to a fade to black
    - Nothing past a fade to black
- Look to have fun on the server

## General Server Conduct
### Verbal Abuse
Any speech, online or offline, to emotionally harm or intimidate another person will not be tolerated. This applies to text, voice, and visual communications. Examples of unacceptable speech include, but are not limited to: 
- Discrimination regarding race or religion. 
- Discrimination regarding gender or sexual orientation. 
- Discrimination regarding physical characteristics. 
- Discrimination regarding the disabled. 
- Discrimination regarding political or other similar beliefs.

### Decency
Members of Apostle are expected to maintain a level of decorum deemed acceptable in a public setting. Certain "off-color" jokes or other such comments will be considered unacceptable and may result in consequences for the violating member. Examples of such themes include: 
- Discrimination 
- Suicide 
- Genocide 
- Terrorism or Criminal Acts 
- Sexual Indecency: including Rape or Sexual Harassment

Sexual Harassment of any type with due evidence will not be tolerated, resulting in the offending player being put under their second strike probation immediately. This policy can be changed only if the issue brought to the moderators is severe, and the admins agree that the person should be banned due to their actions, unanimously.

### Arbitration
Items not explicitly covered in this document, arguments, punishment appeals, or disputes over the rules are subject to a final ruling by the admin team.

## Quest Rules
In regards to signing up for a quest or posting a quest, people agree and consent to follow these rules and understand their consequences:
- A DM can cancel three quests without rescheduling said quests before being put on probation (See '[Probation Rules](11.04%20Probation%20Rules.md)' for more details). Once off probation, if it occurs once again, the DM will be removed from the team. 
- If a quest turns into an adventure, the DM has 14 days to run the remaining portions of the adventure or attempt to set up a time to continue. Fail to do either, and the DM can be put on probation (See '[Probation Rules](11.04%20Probation%20Rules.md)' for details) and must compensate their players with the allocated XP, gold, and whatever else was gained on the original quest. 
- A Player can cancel with a 4-hour notice to the DM responsible for the quest. If a player cancels three times without giving the DM a 4-hour notice, they will be put on probation (See '[Probation Rules](11.04%20Probation%20Rules.md)' for more details). **Those who are exempt from this rule are those with medical or personal emergencies at the time of the quest.** (Please do not lie about the reason for not participating in the quest)
- A Player that insults, disrupts, or fails to cooperate (causes issues during combat, tries to argue with DM, etc.) during a quest may be put on probation (See '[Probation Rules](11.04%20Probation%20Rules.md)' for more details) or blacklisted from future quests. 

# Staff Rules
## Dungeon Masters and Downtime Masters

## NOTE
All Trials (DM, DTDM, and Mod) must go on one quest before applying/being allowed a trial.

### Becoming a Dungeon/Downtime Master
When an individual applies to be a DM, they consent to following these rules and understanding their consequences:
- To become a DM, an individual must pass a two-portion trial. The first portion will be to run **2** downtime requests under a DMs supervision. After the downtimes, the *DM in trial* must run **2** quests with a DM participating and a DM reading (only one quest needs to be shadowed). *DM in trial* is given **90 days** to complete the tasks, failure to do so will result in a termination of their trial process. Otherwise with a passing vote by the dungeon master team, the *DM in trial* will become a full dungeon master.
- Downtime Dungeon Masters are the people that wish to be part of the server staff and its weekly downtimes. In order to become a Downtime Dungeon Master (DTDM) a person may become a DTDM by running **5** downtimes in **30** days after their trial begins. A player that wishes to do this may do so and then trial to be on the actual Dungeon Master Team.
    - If a *DM in trial* runs a downtime for a **player** that is willing, they will receive their regular two downtimes per that week, as well as the one, run by the *DM in Trial*.

### Discord Permissions as a Dungeon Master
- A DM can make threads, run quests, and world-build; HOWEVER, a DM is not a moderator and cannot re-enforce rules without the support of the moderation team or an admin.
- A Downtime DM can make threads and world build **only if an admin approves**. A DTDM is not a DM and cannot run quests. 

### Quest Rights
- Although a DM is not a part of the moderation team, a DM holds the rights to their quest. Meaning that an individual DM can decide who is allowed on their quest and who is blacklisted.

### Player Rules
- If a player is believed to be manipulating the use of an item, spell, rule, etc... in a way that isn't intended (aka "cheesing the system") as deemed by the Admin team (or staff), they will be given a strike.

### Online Activity
- Sixty days of inactivity (no quests run and none posted) from a DM will result in the individual being removed from the team. In addition to this, a DM must run **three** downtimes within 30 days in order to be considered active on the team. A notice to an Admin or post in DM General of reason as to inactivity may make the DM exempt from this rule. A previous DM removed for inactivity may receive a trial seven days after their initial removal.
- Downtimes DMs will be required to run at minimum of **six** downtimes per month to be considered active.  

## Moderators
Moderators are meant to enforce the rules and protect the people within the server. If a moderator sees an immediate infraction with less severity within the server, they may speak to the individual and report the screenshot to the moderation and admin teams. If a violation is more severe, the moderator must report it to the moderation team and admin team first and let a discussion occur about the punishment the individual will receive. 

A moderator in trial CAN NOT reprimand anyone without the support of an admin or moderator behind them. If failed to report and receive permission, the trial will be terminated.

### Becoming a Moderator
Post an application in #applications
- Mod in trials will stay in trial for thirty days before a vote occurs on whether the individual becomes a full Mod. Based on the vote, they will either be promoted, or demoted.
- If for any reason, a moderator in a trial receives a strike, their trial will be terminated, and they will not be allowed to try again for 90 days. 

### Moderator Probation
If for any reason, a moderator receives a strike, they will be put on probation (see '[Probation Rules](11.04%20Probation%20Rules.md)' for more details). If a second strike occurs, the moderator will be removed from the staff and will not be given another trial. 
