# Server Introduction
*After the planet is scorched, a vast majority of its population is left to survive in the underground caverns. They built cities, tunnels, and towns that were created over many generations that connected the Infernal Lands together. 

Thousands of years later, most of the inhabitants of  the Infernal Lands have forgotten about the surface and life before the scorch. Instead, they continue to build and expand their subterranean environment, creating the vast City States such as Ahms, Ember, Beacon, etc. 

However, with the lack of light provided, plants are suffering, and there is a lack of nutrition being provided to the people. Farmers are the wealthiest people in the Infernal Lands, many of them located in the City States of Ahms, and are seen as the most corrupt, although they try to hide it under a facade of beauty. They decide on the amount of food that can be sent to which cities. These farmers and the other wealthy scattered across the Infernal lands, have formed a hierarchy of their own, forcing many to submit to their ideals.

As more adventurers try to find solutions to the growing problems of the Infernal Lands, maybe one of them will breach the surface and find a new world waiting for them.*

## Rules
- [Behavioral Rules](11.02%20Behavioral%20Rules.md)
- [Broken Rule Policy](11.03%20Broken%20Rule%20Policy.md)
- [Probation Rules](11.04%20Probation%20Rules.md)

## Character Creation
- [Character Creation Rules](11.05%20Character%20Creation%20Rules.md)

## Quick Links
- [Lore](../12%20Lore/12.01%20Lore%20Overview.md)
- [Downtime](../13%20Downtime/13.01%20Downtime%20Overview.md)
- [Geography](../14%20Geography/Geography%20Overview.md)
- [System Mecahnics](../15%20System%20Mechanics/15.01%20System%20Mechanics%20Overview.md)