# Guilds
Guilds are a major part of the West March experience we would like to offer in Apostle. The system we will be using to dicate guild creation and opperation will be a first iteration, meaning there will be hiccups in its conception. An overview of the system will be below:
- Naming and Start up: Guilds all need a name to go by when people ask about them, so keep the name SFW and appropriate please! To start a guild a group or single player must gather enough Guild Backings from the [Carousing](https://github.com/ApostleLegion/apostle_dnd/blob/main/11-19%20Apostle%20D%26D/13%20Downtime/13.03%20Homebrew%20Downtime%20Rules.md#carousing-downtime-changes) table to gain enough report with the officials of a city they wish to set as their guild city. Once the player(s) have done so they may formaly create a guild, in which they must decide what type of guild they wish to persue. There are four types of Guilds that may be made and each have their own unique benifits. As the guild levels up it can choose different categories to fill in order to fully incapsulate the idea of the guild a player wishes to make. Once this is completed a Guild Bank will be allocated to store funds in that the guild recieves and or pays.
- Special Guild Downtime: A new guild may create a "Special Guild Downtime" that is specific to the guilds reason for creation. A couple of examples are a increased Bounty Hunt for a Monster Hunters Guild, or a special crafting session that creates an item that may be useful. This special downtime will be created when the guild is created and the DM and Guild Master will talk about the actual mechanical benefits then as well.
- NPC Recruitment: A new [Downtime](link of Recruitment Downtime) will be created for the guild. This downtime will take one of the two a guild member has for the week, but allows guild members to recruit NPCs to their guild to further level their guild and increase income for the guild itself. These NPCs will have a loyalty to the guild. Having a higher loyalty score will allow the NPC to do other things.
- Training NPCs: Once an NPC is recruited a player may train them to do a specific task within the guilds category, allowing that NPC to now take on Guild NPC Downtimes that can bring in gold for the guild or have consquences depending on the success or failure of the Guild NPC Downtime.
- Leveling Up NPCs: Once an NPC does a certain ammount of Guild NPC Downtimes they will gain the ability to level up using the [sidekick](https://5e.tools/variantrules.html#sidekicks_tce) levels as a baseline. To level an NPC up they must have the ability to level up (meeting the specified downtime requirements), the Guild Master must use a "Level Up" token, and 25 gold pieces per side kick level already on the NPC. Doing this increases the chances that the NPC will be able to suceed on its downtimes. 
- Leveling Up the Guild: The guild has a level based upon a renown system and how many NPCs it has under its influence. Though a guild can only lose levels if 2 weeks pass of not meeting the requirments to stay the original level. 
- Guild Expenses: The guild will cost a large some of guild, but over time will become a very lucrative business. Each week the Guild Master will allocate resources to the NPCs it wishes to send on Guild NPC Downtimes. These downtimes have a chance of failing causing harm to the renown of the guild and the loss of revenue. In addition to this the guild master will roll dice dependant on how many Guild Downtimes were ran that week (player Guild Downtimes) and will also gain a number of gold depending on that roll. At the end of the week a DM will oversee the calculations necessary for revenue vs expenses of the week and give out gold to the Guild Bank accordingly.
- Guild Quests and Events: While in a guild Events or quests might come up through role play with NPCs or other things. These Events will be useful for guild members garnering rewards for how well they did in the event or if they completed the quest. These are more of a work in progress at the time of releasing the guild system.
- Players are only allowed to be in 1 guild at anytime. If a player leaves a guild they incur a "Guild Abandoner" tag that hurts their ability to join another guild and subtracts from Carousing rolls. This tag stays on the player for 2 weeks.

### Guild Start Up
As mentioned above a player or group of players that wish to start a guild must get the three guild backing items from the Carousing Downtime table. These backings signify the willingness for the city to begin to work with the new guild, allowing the guild to take on more complicated city quests and or events. Once this backing is acquired the player(s) decide who the guild master will be, the name of the guild, and the guild's "Special Guild Downtime" activity. From there, all guild members may begin doing the Recruiting Downtime to gain NPCs for the guild.

Only characters level five and higher may join a guild.

### Renown
The Guild system uses Renown to gadge how well liked the Guild in question is. A guild with a higher renown will gather more recruits quicker and have a better guild in general. A guild that gains a bad reputation (negative renown) will lose members and public opinion. The table below will show how renown effects a Guild's Business and day to day life. When you choose to do a downtime, you can choose to opt-in to promote your guild. On a success, your guild renown score increases by 1, a failed downtime decreases your renown score by 1. After Guild Level 3, you always have this benefit unless you significantly change your appearance.

Renown | Effects
:--: | :--:
-10 or less | Can only recruit members with a 20+ on the Check, NPCs lose 5 loyalty a week, and -3 to all ability checks made in Guild Downtimes and Recruitment
-9 to -6 | -2 to all ability checks made for Guild Downtimes and Recruitment, NPCs lose 3 loyalty a week
-5 to -1 | -1 to all ability checks made for Guild Downtimes and Recruitment, NPCs lose 1 loyalty a week
0 to 5 | No effect
5 to 10 | +1 to all ability checks made for Guild Downtimes and Recruitment
11 - 16 | +2 to all ability checks made for Guild Downtimes and Recruitment
17+ | +3 to all ability checks made for Guild Downtimes and Recruitment, NPCs gain 1 loyalty a week

To level up the guild, Guild Masters must pay the renown necessary to level in the below section, reducing the renown that the guild has for a short period. If a guild has less than the required NPCs in thier guild for 2 weeks straight the guild will be demoted to the level of NPCs it has. Before gaining a Guild Hall the guild can have a maximum amount of renown of 5, once the Guild Hall is created there is no limit to how much renown a guild can gain. The bonuses or deductions from ability checks only add or subtract while in the special "Guild Downtime" that the guild has set up or in recruitment. This may change as DMs see fit.

### Guild Categories & Levels
Not all guilds will be the same, so in our system we created four guild categories that cover most, if not all, bases that a guild may want to do in D&D. These four categories have 5 levels each, but a guild may only have a total of 5 levels meaning players can mix and match these four categories as they wish to create the guild they envision. A guild's "Category" will be marked by the highest level category in that guild. If there is an even ammount of levels, the first level taken in a category will be marked as the guild's "Category". This Category will determine what weekly resource table a guild rolls on, what downtimes NPCs are able to do and other things as well. The Table below will show what bonuses at what level in what category a guild will get.

Guild Level | Requirement | Adventuring | Criminal | Artisan | Performer
:--: | :--: | :--: | :--: | :--: | :--:
1 | 5 NPCs, 5 Renown, Guild Hall | 25% Bonus to Pit Fighting Rewards | 25% Bonus to Petty Crime Rewards | Chance of Common Shard or Lore on a 21+ for Work | 25% Discount to Carousing Costs
2 | 10 NPCs, 15 Renown, Guild Quest Completed | Dungeon Delve, Minor Weekly Resources | Hiest, Minor Weekly Resources | Caravan, Minor Weekly Resources | Street Show, Minor Weekly Resources
3 | 15 NPCs, 20 Renown, & Guild Hall Upgrade | 50% Bonus to Pit Fighting and Bounty Hunting Rewards | 50% Bonus to Petty Crime and Recruitment Rewards | Chance of Uncommon Shard or 3 Lore on a 21+ for Work, Crafting also has a chance of giving a Common Shard or Lore on a 21+ | 50% Discount to Carousing Costs, profiency modifer ammount of Bardic Insperation (d6s)
4 | 20 NPCs, 25 Renown, & Guild Event Completed | Research Expedition | Contract Kill | Art Show | Large Performance
5 | 25 NPCs, 30 Renown | Weekly Consumables, Major Weekly Resources | Weekly Consumables, Major Weekly Resources | Weekly Reroll on a single skill check, Major Weekly Resources | Weekly Reroll on a Saving Throw, Major Weekly Resources
-- | -- | Downtimes: Pit fighting, Bounty Hunting | Downtime: Petty Crime | Downtime: Crafting | Downtime: Carousing

All guilds are able to do the work downtime and their special downtime as a Guild NPC Downtime if the NPC is trained in the downtime.

### Recruiting
This downtime consists of looking for promising individuals based on their challenge rating (CR). A single persuasion roll must be made and if the roll beats the set DC for the CR that a player is trying to aquire, that NPC will join the guild. This NPC will start with 1d12+(guild level) loyalty in which if they do not get paid for that weeks pay they will lose 1d6 loyalty to the guild. They can gain loyalty through interacting with them, taking them on Downtimes with players, or other ways. The table below indicates the CR, DC, number of recruited NPCs, and cost per week per NPC that will be used.

CR | # Recruited | DC | Cost per Week
:--: | :--: | :--: | :--:
1/8 - 1/2 | 1d6+1 | 5 | 5gp
1 - 3 | 1d4+1 | 10 | 25gp
4 - 6 | 2 | 15 | 100gp
7 - 9 | 1 | 20 | 250gp
10 - 12 | 1 | 25 | 500gp

These NPCs can be trained, leveled up, and do Guild NPC Downtimes.

### Guild NPCs
A player must use a Training Downtime to train the new NPC they recruited in the ways of whatever downtime they wish that is within their guild category. Upon doing so the NPC is now able to do Guild NPC Downtimes of that specific type. If a player wishes to train the NPC in another skill they may do so using another training downtime. A sheet of NPCs, their skills, levels, ammount of Guild NPC Downtimes they've done, and basic information will be recorded. 

#### Guild NPC Downtimes
Each week the guild master will be asked what NPCs are going on what Downtimes at what Tier of downtime. The guild can support 3x(total guild level) number of Guild NPC Downtimes per week. The tier of downtime will determine the rate of sucess that an NPC will have within the specifed downtime. The table below will show what tier of downtime, the failure calculation, the critical failure calculation, and the rewards upon success. The notation that will be used is Challenge Rating of the NPC (CR) and Sidekick Level (SL). This table shows 2 d100 rolls made for the success of a Guild NPC Downtime. The Critical fail roll is only taken into account if the first roll does fail.

Tier of Downtime | Fail Rate | Crit Fail Rate | Rewards
:--: | :--: | :--: | :--:
S | 90-(CR+SL)% | 100-((CRx2)+SL)% | (CR+(SL/2))x125 gp
A | 75-(CR+SL)% | 50-((CRx2)+SL)% | (CR+(SL/2))x50 gp
B | 50-(CR+SL)% | 25-((CRx2)+SL)% | (CR+(SL/2))x25 gp
C | 25-(CR+SL)% | 10-((CRx2)+SL)% | (CR+(SL/2))x12 gp
D | 10-(CR+SL)% | 5-((CRx2)+SL)% | (CR+(SL/2))x5 gp

On a failure the guild will lose 1 renown and an effect that will be based upon the downtime chosen will be added either to that NPC or the guild. On a Critical Fail, the guild will lose 1d6 renown and a harsher effect bsed on the downtime will be added to the NPC or Guild. Below are some of the effects that may show on a fail.

Bounty Hunting:
 - Fail: NPC is injured for 1d3 weeks, the guild can wait these weeks or pay 3 times the reward amout to heal the NPC
 - Critical Fail: The NPC is Killed, may be revived if the guild has the means to do so

Pit Fighting:
- Fail: The NPC incurs a debt of the rewards that it would've earned and can not do Pit Fighting Downtimes until this debt is paid
- Critical Fail: The NPC is injured for 1d3 weeks either the guild can wait the weeks for them to heal or pay 3 times the rewards to heal the NPC

Work: 
- Fail: The NPC broke the tools necessary for the job, the guild must pay half the rewards that the NPC would've gained
- Critical Fail: The NPC severly destroyed tools for the job, the guild must pay 3 times the rewards that the NPC would've gained

Petty Crime:
- Fail: The NPC was jailed, the guild can either wait 1d3 weeks to get the NPC out or pay the rewards the NPC would've gained
- Critical Fail: The NPC was sent to Prison, the NPC is lost unless the guild wants to try to break the NPC out

Crafting:
- Fail: The NPC is fined for misuse of tools and or broken tools, the guild must pay half the rewards the NPC would've gained
- Critical Fail: The NPC destroys the blueprints to the item they were making, the guild must pay 3 times the reward the NPC would've gained

Carousing:
- Fail: The NPC insulted a noble, the guild must pay half of the rewards the NPC would've gained
- Critical Fail: The NPC is thrown in jail, the guild can wait 1d3 weeks to get the NPC back or pay the rewards the NPC would've gained

These are just suggested fail complications and DMs have the ability to alter them as they see fit. If an NPC is left injured or jailed they lose 1d4 loyalty per week they are injured or jailed.

#### Loyalty
The NPCs a guild gains have a loyalty score that is rolled when they gain the NPC. This roll is 1d12+(guild level). During the time that an NPC is in the guild it gains or loses loyalty based upon a number of things. Each week that the NPC does nothing for the guild it loses a loyalty point. Each week that it does something for the guild it gains 1 loyalty point. The maximum amount of loyalty that an NPC can have is 20, but if the loyalty drops to 0 the NPC will leave the guild and may become an enemy of the guild depending on the circumstances it left under. NPCs can also gain loyalty if they go on guild quests, guild downtimes, and guild jobs with guild members. Once a NPC hits loyalty 20 the NPC can be taken on actual quests for a price that the NPC asks for in character.

#### Death of an NPC
NPCs can die on Downtimes, Quests, Guild Quests, Guild Events, Guild Jobs and other ways as well. If an NPC dies the guild loses 1d6 renown for every NPC that dies in the same week. Meaning if 2 NPCs die the guild would lose 1d6 for the first and 2d6 for the second. Having a guild that kills people is quite bad and will result in renown loss and NPCs leaving the guild. 

### Guild Expenses
The operation of a guild is quite expensive, from the cost of a guild hall to paying guild members, the expenses will add up. This section will inform players on what the weekly cost of running a guild will be at whatever level the guild is. The table below will show the level of the guild and its cost per week in running it.

Level of Guild | Base Cost | Additional Costs
:--: | :--: | :--:
1 | 25gp | Cost of NPCs + Guild Downtime cost
2 | 50gp | Cost of NPCs + Guild Downtime cost
3 | 75gp | Cost of NPCs + Guild Downtime cost
4 | 100gp | Cost of NPCs + Guild Downtime cost
5 | 125gp | Cost of NPCs + Guild Downtime cost

Additional expenses may arise if applicable, but the more single payment costs for running a guild is the cost of 3000 gp for the guild hall, and the additional 10000 gp for the upgraded guild hall. Their will be more upgrades and things that Guild will be able to do at a later date.

#### Guild Profit
Every week the Guild Master will be asked to roll a d12 a number of times equal to the amount of guild downtimes the player guild members did that week and add on the renown of the guild. This number represents the amount of gold the guild made that week through passive activites. To find the total profit that a guild made in the week add the "Passive Income" to "Guild NPC Income" then subtract "Base Expenses" and "Additional Expenses" from that number. Once this number is found a DM will add it to the Guild's Bank.

#### Guild Bank
This is the fund that all expenses will be taken out from at the end of each week. Guild Members can put gold into the fund as they wish but only the Guild Master can take gold out. This coin can be used to incentivise other players to join the guild or go on guild quests or jobs without having them as a member of the guild. 

### Guild Events & Quests
A guild may get a guild quest, event, or job through role playing and or other things. The jobs that are allowed in category for the guild can be taken once bi-monthly without costing favors to do so. Guild Quests and Events will pop up randomly as the guild does activities. The more active the higher chance that a quest or event may happen upon the guild. These events and quests can only be initiated by guild members but any non-guild members may participate if told about them. Though the non-member does not get the guild specific rewards that members would get upon completion. 

### Ending Remarks
This guild system is a bit complex and daunting to look at but I do think that players will have fun balancing the "books" and gain NPCs that can help them in different ways. In addition players are able to join any of the existing Guilds which will be posted in a channel on the Apostle Server. In addition any and all organizations that are being ran in Apostle will become Guilds under this system though DMs do not need to calculate the gold gain/loss they would need to if the Guild was player ran.
