[System Mechanics Overview](15.01%20System%20Mechanics%20Overview.md)

# Resting
Resting in D&D is a vital part of what makes the game work. However, we realize that in a Westmarch type setting, tracking when rests occur is necessary. Below are the methods for which your rests can be taken.
- **Short Rests:** Occur after every quest. Allowing you to regain short rest abilities and to heal up with hit dice. Please refer to [#resting-template](https://discord.com/channels/1003110420741107792/1043939832356929676) in the Character Server for how to log these rests.
- **Long Rest:** Long rests occur after a specified amount of money is spent to accurately reflect your character's level and needed rest time. Players get one free Long Rest per irl week and 2 Short rests per irl week. These rests do not stack if they are not used. The weekly reset is the same for everyone, which occurs at the new downtime week, 11:00 CST. Players would still be able to pay for a long rest at a higher price due to this change. [#resting-template](https://discord.com/channels/1003110420741107792/1043939832356929676) in the Character Server for how to log long rests.  

Rests will be tracked on your personal character channel in the [Apostle Character Server](https://discord.com/channels/1003110420741107792/1003110421437354076).

## Short Rests
When recording a *Short Rest* in your personal character channel in the [Apostle Character Server](https://discord.com/channels/1003110420741107792/1003110421437354076), you'll use the following template:
```md
**IC Name:**
**Rest Type:** Short
**Name of DM:**
**Name of Quest:**
```

Type: `!g sr` then roll a hit dice, and that will be your hp back. To find your hit die, type `!level` then do `!r #` (whatever number it says. Ex: `!r 1d8+3`) and add that to your hp with `!g hp +(number rolled)`.

After a quest, you are given a short rest.  Please follow this template in your personal character channel so we can make sure everyone is following the rules! If you have any issues, please ping an `@Admin`, and we will walk you through it!

## Long Rests
When recording a *Long Rest* in your personal character channel in the [Apostle Character Server](https://discord.com/channels/1003110420741107792/1003110421437354076), you'll use the following template:
```md
**IC Name:**
**Rest Type:** Long
**Amount Paid:**
```

Type: `!g lr`

Once per IRL day, your character can buy a long rest, unless its after a Quest (please take a look at the chart below for how much it will cost for your character). Please follow this template in your personal character channel so we can make sure everyone is following the rules! If you have any issues, please ping an `@Admin`, and we will walk you through it!

### Long Rest Costs per level
Level | Cost 
:--: | :--:
2 - 10gp
3 - 15gp
4 - 20gp
5 - 25gp
6 - 35gp
7 - 50gp
8 - 75gp
9 - 100gp
10 - 125gp
11 - 150gp
12 - 175gp
13 - 225gp
14 - 275gp
15 - 325gp
16 - 375gp
17 - 450gp
18 - 525gp
19 - 600gp
20 - 700gp
