# Quests
[System Mechanics Overview](15.01%20System%20Mechanics%20Overview.md)

Quests can be short, long, asynchronous or synchronous, depending on the DM running it. For transparency, you can see how the rewards are calculated below.

## Combat Experience
The sum (Σ) of CR experience (CRxp) of creatures vanquished times 0.01 times the number of creatures killed of that CR (#C) rounded down equals combat experience given out to players for that quest. This is mathematically expressed below:


`Σ (CRxp*0.01*#C) = CXp`

> *Note:* Experience is not divided by # of characters present.

## Roleplay Experience
The number of objectives completed (O#) times the average party level (Pavg) times the constant experience value for the average party level tier of play (ToPC) rounded down equals role play experience at a **minimum of one experience**. This is mathematically expressed below:

`#O(Pavg*ToPC) = RXp`


## Total Experience
Add RXp and CXp together to get TXp for the quest.

We will use the Tiers of Play to calculate Experience points through a constant. When calculating the average party level, always round down to a whole number to find what tier the party is in, then use the appropriate constant. That constant will be as follows:

Tiers of Play (Levels) | Experience Constant (Per Objective)
:--: | :--:
1-4 | 0.25
5-10 | 0.5
11-16 | 0.75
17-20 | 1

## Material and Coin Rewards
To find the coin reward for players for completing a quest roll a Hoard based on the average party level. Divide the total coinage by 2, then give out the coin eaqually to the players. If gems or artworks are rolled give them out equally and any left over gems or artwork are up to DM discretion. Any magic items rolled in this way, instead of giving them the item the DM can choose to give them the item recipe. This recipe can be given to every player or just a specific one. For individual looting please use the Dungeon Master’s Guide tables on page 136, as a guideline and total all of the individual coin gained in this way. Then divide it equally amongst the players.
