# Published Downtime Rules
[Downtime Overview](13.01%20Downtime%20Overview.md)

These rules can be found in [Xanathar's Guide to Everything](https://www.dndbeyond.com/sources/xgte/downtime-revisited).

## Carousing
Carousing remains largely unchanged except for the economic bits mentioned in [Economy Changes](../15%20System%20Mechanics/15.05%20Economy%20Changes.md). It's also a method for player characters to earn their own NPCs which can help enhance and increase the rewards of future downtime activities. Please refer to [Homebrew Downtime Rules](13.03%20Homebrew%20Downtime%20Rules.md) for more information.

## Buying a Magic Item
Is not being used.

## Crafting an Item
Is not being used.

## Crime
Crime as detailed in [Xanathar's Guide to Everything](https://www.dndbeyond.com/sources/xgte/downtime-revisited) deals more with heists and other elite jobs. You can learn more about **Petty Crime** in our [Homebrew Downtime Rules](13.03%20Homebrew%20Downtime%20Rules.md).

To engage in elite crime, you must first acquire 3 NPCs. They are used to form a heist group which takes two prerequisite downtime “setups” before the player can choose a heist crew. The heist happens as a “quest,” taking the heist crew through the heist. These “setup” downtimes can be run by any DM and can determine how hard the heist is. As a rule of thumb, if the “setup” downtimes both succeeded, the heist won’t have any added precautions. If one fails on the “setups,” the heist location would be on edge, having increased traps and puzzles, while if both setups fail, the location is put on high alert garnering more guards and harder DCs. The heist system will be thought out in more detail when a player is close to gaining a way to attempt a heist.

## Gambling
Gambling remains unchanged except for the economic bits mentioned in [Economy Changes](../15%20System%20Mechanics/15.05%20Economy%20Changes.md).

## Pit Fighting
Pit Fighting remains unchanged except for the economic bits mentioned in [Economy Changes](../15%20System%20Mechanics/15.05%20Economy%20Changes.md).

## Relaxation
Remains unchanged.

## Religous Service
Remains unchanged.

## Research
Remains unchanged.

## Scribing a Spell Scroll
Is not being used.

## Selling a Magic Item
Is not being used.

## Training
Training remains unchanged except for the economic bits mentioned in [Economy Changes](../15%20System%20Mechanics/15.05%20Economy%20Changes.md).

## Work
Work remains unchanged except for the economic bits mentioned in [Economy Changes](../15%20System%20Mechanics/15.05%20Economy%20Changes.md).