 # Downtime Rules
[Downtime Overview](13.01%20Downtime%20Overview.md)

 We use a modified version of [Xanathar's Guide to Everything](http://anyflip.com/dudv/fqwq)'s downtime. 
 
 ## Modifications
 Activities that are changed will be noted below.
 - In our system all rewards and prices are halved. 
 - The major change from the downtime of Xanathar's to Apostle's downtime is the Carousing activity. 
 - We have also created the bounty hunting activity and travel activity that will be outlined below.

## Carousing Downtime Changes:

### Contact Favors
Favors have change to reflect the need for more structure and advancement in our downtime system. In doing so we have added bonuses, reductions, and special "quests" and "items" players can get with Carousing. Everything noted below in the Carousing Downtime Changes, is the first iteration and will most likely have some hiccups to work through.

Favors no longer subscribe to a single city and may be used outside the city it was gained in at the "Out of Category/City Bonus" modifier amount. If the favor is used in the same city under the same category **only then will** a player receive the full bonus for the class of the Favor.

### Class of Favors
Class of Favor corresponds to the amount of gold a player spends on the Carousing; Lower (5gp), Middle (25gp), and Upper (125gp) respectively will give bonuses to downtime checks as represented below. These classes dont determine the actual wealth of the person that gave the Favor, just the ammount of gold a player used to Carouse with.

Class | Bonus to Checks | Out of City Bonus
:--: | :--: | :--: 
Upper | +5 | +3
Middle | +3 | +1
Lower | +1 | +0

### Category of Favors
Instead of giving a Favor regarding a single downtime, a DM can choose what "Category" of Favor a player gets for their downtime. The seven categories below outline what each Favor can do. More than one catagory can be given out for a sucessful Carousing Downtime. 

Category | Cost of 6 Favors | Cost of 4 Favors | Cost of 1 Favor | Special
:--: | :--: | :--: | :--: | :--:
Reputation | Guild Backing | - | Recruit a Trainer | Use 2 to get out of any consquence from a downtime
Monetary | Guild Backing; "Merchant" Reputation Point | Coin Reward; Caravan | Double Rewards for: Gambling, Work | -
Work | Guild Backing; "Work Horse" Reputation Point | - | Double Rewards for: Work Downtimes; Reduce Cost of Crafting Mundane item; Reduce Cost of Crafting Sessions for Magic Items | -  
Commision | "Artist" Reputation Point | Art Show | Double Rewards for: Work, Gambling Downtimes | -
Talent | "Talented" Reputation Point | Special Job | Double Rewards for: Work, Bounty Hunting, Pit Fighting Downtimes | - 
Crime | "Criminal" Reputation Point | Heist | Double Rewards for: Crime, Bounty Hunting Downtimes | - 
Research | "Scholar" Reputation Point | Research Expedition | Reduce Cost of Researching Downtime | - 

With this players can use any Favor on any downtime they wish. The "Out of Category/City Bonus" only applies if a player does not use a Favor in its category or its city of origin, unless specified otherwise by a DM.
Only **one** Favor may be used on any **one** Downtime. This bonus to the rolls made stays until the downtime is **completed** and is only applicable in downtime senarios. 

In addition players may now buy "items" or "scenarios" with the Favors they gain. These are noted below:

Item | Effect
:--: | :--:
Guild Backing | (Work in Progress) ~~In order to create a guild a player must gain a "Guild Backing" from three Categories: Those three being Work, Monetary, and Reputation. The Class of the Favor must be at least Middle in order to redeem a "Guild Backing".~~
Reputation Points | (Work in Progress) ~~These points give players additional rewards for their categories and may allow more advanced downtimes to be done.~~
Special Jobs | These are the "Art Show", "Special Job", "Heist", and "Research Expedition" redeemable items. Each of these allow a player to do a "quest" but also takes two of their downtimes to complete. A DM can pick up these quests at their own leisure. 

Special Jobs:
- Art Show: In this a player may create an art show, showing off their gems, and art they have collected (Not magical items). During this art show NPCs will try to steal art from the show and get it out before the player can catch them. As a reward the player gets as much gold value as they put in the art show without having to actually sell the items.
- Special Job: This is a Hitman's job or a crews job. The person that initiated this job will get to choose a target to try to assassinate or capture. This target can be any NPC a DM has ran before and must only be an NPC. As a reward a player gets 3x the reward amount for bounty hunts done for the next 5 bounty hunts.
- Heist: Straight forward a player or crew are trying to infiltrate an area and get coin and other items out. Player reward varies. 
- Research Expedition: Players can form an expedition group that goes and find the materials for three recipes of their choosing. On this expedition if successful the player will gain enough crafting material to make at least one of the three items.
- Caravan: A player may gather a caravan of merchants and other people to travel to a city with. During this time bandits and monsters may come attack the caravan. Rewards: Carousing costs halved for the next five Carousings done within the city the Caravan went to, and a coin reward. 
- More to come!

### Reduced Prices using Favors
When a Favor is used to reduce a price of a crafting session or research session, the total reduced cost is equal to the class of the Favor used. The higher the class of a favor the more the reduction will be, as outlined in the below table. 
Class | Reduction
:--: | :--:
Upper | 15%
Middle | 10%
Lower | 5%

All prior favors will be convered to a middle class favor and will be case by case on which category favor it will become. Players that have Favors will be asked to let a DM know if their Favors were not converted into the new system as of yet.

## Petty Crime
Petty Crime is different than [Xanathar's Guide to Everything](http://anyflip.com/dudv/fqwq)'s crime in [economic differences](../15%20System%20Mechanics/15.05%20Economy%20Changes.md) and rolls. To engage in petty crime, the rolls required to succeed change from `Stealth, Tools and one of [Deception, Investigation, or Perception]` to **Stealth, Sleight of Hand and one of [Deception, Investigation, Persuasion, or Perception]**. This is to signify the change from heists to petty crimes and stealing.

## Bounty Hunting
This Downtime option takes a player through a series of checks to try to capture and or kill (depending on the request) a creature or humanoid. A player will be asked to roll at least one of each of these checks during this downtime. `[Survival or Nature], [Perception or Investigation], [Stealth or Performance], and [Persuasion, Deception, or Intimidation]`. 

- On four successes, the target doesn’t struggle and goes willingly
- With three successes, the target gives a little fight (half hp for stat blocks)
- With two successes, the target fights with all its strength
- With one success, the target evades capture
- With zero success, the target is not found at all

These rolls may be made out of role-play or in role-play as events unfold. If all of the first three rolls fail, the last is not needed, as the target was never found. There will be five categories of Bounties that may be upgraded with Favors. Now the A and S tier bounties are "locked" behind a Talent/Commision Favor. In addition Bounties are now limited to one per week, and on S and A bounties no other Favor may be used to gain bonus to checks or gain double rewards off of.

These five are as follows:

Tier | DC | Challenge Rating | Rewards
:--: | :--: | :--: | :--:
S | DC 18 + Proficiency Modifier | CR creature above normal level | 125 x Character Level gp
A | DC 15 + Proficiency Modifier | CR creature normal level | 50 x Character Level gp
B | DC 12 + Proficiency Modifier | CR creature normal level | 25 x Character Level gp
C | DC 10 + Proficiency Modifier | CR creature below normal level | 12 x Character Level gp
D | DC 8 + Proficiency Modifier | CR creature below normal level | 5 x Character Level gp

Bounty Hunting has the complication rate of: 
- If two fails happen there is a 10% chance to have a complication. 
- For three fails, there is a 10% chance of complication. 
- If all fail, there is a 50% chance of complications. 

Complications are up to the DM running the bounty hunt.

## Training
To train a player must have Caroused to gain a teacher to be trained by. This teacher is specific to the type of training that is done with them, meaning if a player wishes to train a different thing they must find a new trainer. All things in Xanathar's are still able to be trained in addition to that players may now train **half ASIs** (Ability Score Increases). These half ASIs are governed by these rules:

- A player can only have trained an ability score to the maximum score of 18 (+4)
- A player only is allotted their proficiency modifier amount of times they may train to increase ability scores
- A player can not switch these half ASI scores once they are set and may lose them if their character is killed or altered significantly.

## Research
Players may research magic items, at **level 1** a player may research up to an **uncommon** magic item per downtime. Once a player reaches **level 7** they may begin to research **rare** items. Once they reach **level 13** they may research **very rare** magic items, and finally once they reach **level 18** they may research **legendary** magic items. A player that researched a magic item in this way gains the recipe for said magic item and can share this recipe or keep it private if they wish to.

## Researching Blueprints
You can research magical item recipes using **Lore** gained from the [Official Research Downtime Activity](13.02%20Published%20Downtime%20Rules.md#research). The following table demonstrates how much **Lore** is required to finish researching a particular recipe. You can only research recipes up to a rarity that is dependent upon your level.

Minimum Character Level | Item Rarity | Lore Required
:--: | :--: | :--:
1 | Common | 1
1 | Uncommon | 3
7 | Rare | 6
13 | Very Rare | 9
18 | Legendary | 12

## Travel
Travel is a free downtime action that can be taken as many times as a player wishes to travel. While traveling, a player will make these checks: `[Survival], [Perception], and [Stealth or Intimidation]`. 

- With three successes, the rate of complication drops to 0%.
- With only two successes, the rate of complication rises to 10%. 
- With one success, the complication rate rises to 25%.
- With zero success complication rate rises to 75%. 

The DC to pass raises as players level up by the tiers of play in the PHB. This will be as follows:

Teir (Level of player) | DC
:--: | :--:
Tier 1(levels 1-4) | DC 12
Tier 2(levels 5-10) | DC 14
Tier 3(levels 11-16) | DC 16
Tier 4(levels 17-20 | DC 18
 
Complications are up to the DM running the travel. Most usual complications are when an enemy attacks the player, but on an off chance, a DM can rule that the player finds something interesting. Do not make it a habit to have complications be “good” things, as the tunnels are supposed to be scary to travel alone through. If a group of players wishes to travel through the tunnels, take the average level and average out the rolls made.

## Crafting
Crafting is one of the many downtime actions that a player can take. We will use the downtime rules as mentioned in Xanathar’s, but there is a DC and necessary completion checks instead of work weeks. The cost for the item will be distributed between the downtime sessions necessary to complete the item, stated below. The DCs will be stated below as well as the necessary completed checks:

Rarity of Item | DC to Succeed | # of Completions Necessary | Gold Cost per Session
:--: | :--: | :--: | :--:
Common | DC 10 | One | 50 gold coins
Uncommon | DC 15 | Two | 100 gold coins
Rare | DC 20 | Four | 500 gold coins
Very Rare | DC 25 | Six | 3500 gold coins
Legendary | DC 30 | Eight | 12500 gold coins

Any session costs must be paid before the rolls are made to craft an item. If a player fails the check to make an item by five or more, they must pay half the gold of the downtime session of crafting for the item on top of the session cost. If they fail the check by ten or more, they must pay the downtime session cost again and lose the material necessary to make the item. 

The materials that are necessary for crafting are shards. These shards come in different rarities, from uncommon to legendary. To craft an item, a player needs a number of shards of a rarity similar to the item they wish to craft as well as the recipe of the item they wish to craft. A minimum number of shards necessary to create an item is linked to the number of completions necessary to complete the item in question. In addition to this, if the item in question is an enchantment to a pre-existing item, the item getting enchanted also needs to be aquired (I.E. a +1 longsword needs a longsword to enchant). A shard will be consumed if the downtime crafting session is successful or if the player **fails** by **ten** or more.

Crafting Consumables: (Scrolls, Potions, etc.)
Crafting consumable items takes half of the successful crafting sessions to complete and gives 2 of the specified item upon completion.
- Potions of Healing: Do not take shards to make, only 50 gold and one successful crafting session to make 2 Potions of healing.
- Other items may be reduced as Admins and the DM Team see fit.

Crafting Mundane Items:
Crafting mundane items is a lot easier than crafting magical ones. A player that wishes to craft a mundane item can do so with the crafting downtime. If a player is not proficient in the tools necessary for crafting the item they pay full price in gold for the item and do not need to roll. If a player is proficient in the correct tools they may reduce the cost by 10% of its original value and craft it. If a player has expertise in the correct tools this discount rises to 25% of the total price. 

## Selling Quest Goods and Treasure
A player that gains items from quests, like art pieces, gems, etc., can use this downtime to sell those items in bulk. A DM will ask for a persuasion check (or another check if applicable) to be rolled. If a player rolls a 12 or above they get an additional 10% of the total coin cost of the items being sold. If a player rolls between a 8-12 the player gets the normal amount of coin cost of the items. If a player rolls below an 8 they get a 10% deduction on the total price of the items being sold. On a 1 or a 20, naturally rolled, a player loses or gains 20% of the total price respectively.
